match up.
>> It is indeed. Well, we are off here.
Round one, phase two. Alexandra against
Mateesh. And they are going to be
starting off with one of those Team
Rocket cards. It is, of course, Team
Rockets Proton. Yes, it's turn one. Yes,
they're going first, but you can still
go and get free basic Team Rockets
Pokémon. And they do go to your hand,
not the bench. Yeah, and that's ideal.
It means we can start filtering out the
deck. And of course, it is that special
text where you can use it on the first
turn. So, Team Rockets definitely wants
to be the deck going first. You get to
ideally stash an extra attachment this
turn as well, but already getting this
Team Rockets uh Proton, getting the
early access to three of these Pokémon
that we're seeing grabbed immediately
here is already a phenomenal opener
here. Now, one card we've not yet spoken
about there is the Transceiver that we
can use to go and get a support card for
next turn. It's Team Rocket Spidey Ops.
Huge card. It's got the ability charging
up that lets you attach a basic energy
from your discard pile to this Pokemon.
And the attack for two energy does 30
damage for each of your rockets Pokémon
in play which with a full bench that's
180 for two energy on a single prize
Pokemon. You're hitting that great grass
weakness we've highlighted already on
the stream this weekend. And that is
really at the heart of the deck. You do
have Team Rockets Mewtwo as a big beat
stick Pokemon. We've got that mimikyu
you mentioned which can go and copy
phantom dive or any attack from a terror
Pokemon only. But it really does all
stem from that team rocket fire ops.
>> And how about that for an opener Ross
already finding the team rockets energy
the special energy card that allows us
to essentially have a two for one effect
here.
>> And four team rockets around like I know
I said that was an important card but no
mucking about from a taste here. just
absolutely showing us and that team
rockets energy which counts as a double
energy. Don't be sleeping on that one.
It's going to be finding its way into
the discard pile. This is all Mate
trying to prepare for the inevitable
itchy pollen cuz there's already the
active position budding lowering our
hand side as much as possible cuz we've
just put an Ariana into our hand which
draws up to eight cards if you only have
Team Rockets Pokemon in play. So, Mata's
already set himself up really nicely for
that turn number two. The only thing
lacking was any basic energy discard
from that ultra ball cuz then you can
use the charging up ability you just
mentioned Ross from Spider so easily.
But immediately this is an amazing start
from the team rocket side of things.
Let's see how Alexandre can react who's
playing that combination of Dragapult
and Blazakin. One of the big notes about
Blazakin. Not so much that it's hitting
for weakness in this matchup. It's more
the fact that it's not going to be hit
for weakness via Lily's Clefairy. So it
may be one of your more tanky options in
this matchup. It might absolutely. And I
do like that blazer kin. It's got that
ability which attaches a basic energy
from your discard to one of your Pokemon
very much like the spide ops. So we
should be accelerating a bunch of
energy. Now we get [clears throat] the
torchic down and we get the drey. And
then it is a Lily's determination.
Shovey hand into your deck. Draw
yourself out a new hand of eight cards.
Frankly not too shabby. And then we're
probably going to be ending on that
itchy pollen. We're going to be turning
off item cards. And like we've seen so
much on stream this weekend, just try to
buy a turn or two to set up your stage
two Pokémon.
>> And crucially, one of the things you'd
love to disrupt is a searching card for
a Team Rocket's Articuno or additional
spide ops. If you can use this pollen
effectively to slow down Mateesh, even
if they're taking knockouts, as long as
they're not protecting these vulnerable
lower hit point tarantula, that could
still really work out for you. You still
want to capitalize on these low 50 hit
point Pokémon. And with this being a
multiple stage two archetype that are
two copies of the rare candy in the list
for Alexandre. So especially with this
buddy buddy poffin coming down, this is
an amazing opening turn for both players
actually as we see the third drey hit
the bench as well from the buddy buddy
poffin. It means that both players are
looking to have their ideal openers here
knowing that Ariana's sat in hand for
Matt and now we have multiple drippy. As
long as we can work towards that early
rare candy, you can really sc Oh wow,
even the extra torchic here. So not even
concerned about any Giovani combination
from the opponent now. A really good
turn.
>> This is just your perfect setup. You've
got free DP, two Toric Pu in the active.
Now here is of course Team Rocket
Ariana. We knew that was coming. It was
searched out with the transceiver on the
previous turn knowing that he was going
to be item locked. So you draw until
eight cards in hand. There are a few
unplayable items. No energy whatsoever.
Even one grass energy would have been
enough to get a knockout with Tarantula.
takedown attack does the 30 requisite
damage but no basic energy at all here
>> not even a well no energy at all can't
even use I know team rock's energy
wouldn't be efficient but it would still
have got the KO nothing there we see a
DLO coming down we see a combustion
coming down we've got a recon directive
you've got a choice between Meowth or
pheasant dip te the perfect support
Pokemon
>> yeah two options both well first of all
we're going to pitch this additional BU
and the Lily's Clefairy ex not so useful
in this matchup, but you can't hit any
crucial weakness. So, let's grab a
second Dloak and continue with our recon
directive. Still going to hunt down some
energy cards and any supporter would do
here, but already the first checkpoint
has gone in favor of Alexandri where
there's still no Team Rockets Articuno
on the board. You're beginning to get
your Draclo online. You're hoping that
you can at least get a decent amount of
value in with your Phantom dive before
the reelling the Repelling Veil shuts
down access to those basics.
>> Absolutely. The Repelling Veil, of
course, it stops effects of attacks done
to your basic Team Rockets Pokémon, and
that would include dropping damage
counters from Phantom Die. Here comes
Crispen. That's going to get you two
energy. One gets attached to one of your
Pokémon. One goes into your hand
>> to then be attached to one of your
Pokémon. [laughter]
And this is so crucial in a world where,
you know, you said earlier, Neopper
Energy, you can't really afford to play
that anymore as your Ace. But this is a
good way to get both the energy on a
Dragapult in one turn to start getting
that phantom dive. Now, we could see a
phantom dive if we see rare candy, but
this is Okay, here's confirmation there
will be no phantom dive.
>> Oo, intriguing. Thinking about spreading
the energy attachments versus just
putting them both onto one track. I
think with the large hand size, uh,
Alexandria is having to respect the fact
that there could be a Team Rocket
Giovani. So is going to spread the
energy over multiple Pokemon rather than
committing to just one knowing of course
that he's holding on to a blazer in EX
in his hand. So if either of these
Dcloak are dealt with, you can then just
use Blazik X to bring back that energy
and come straight in with a phantom
dive.
>> Let's see action for Mesh then because
one awkward Yeah, this is exactly one of
the few issues with the Team Rockets
engine is that the Ariana is not a
shuffle and draw effect. It only draws
up in cards. So in this instance, we're
having to use a second Team Rockets
Proton during this game. You're normally
like a one and done sort of effect with
this supporter, but in this case, we're
having to firstly find the Articuno in a
timely fashion, but secondly almost thin
our deck to give ourselves better outs
to start top decking towards Team
Rocket's factories and just physical
energy cards. That's the one elusive
piece right now. And this is a bonus of
the cards going a hand rather than onto
the bench. If you had to bench it, you'd
only be able to search one here. At
least you can search free bench one.
Keep the other two in hand. Like you
say, thin out your deck a little bit.
But you look at Mat's hand. We got a
couple of Team Rockets transceiver which
can't be played. You got a bunch of
supporters, but you haven't got any that
are really going to get you out of this.
You're lacking any kind of energy
whatsoever. So you're just sitting
there. Boo is doing absolutely what it
wants to do with that itchy pollen. And
again, there's no attack and just
passing back.
>> Didn't bench the Articuno either. So a
Phantom Knife could take out multiple
Tarantula here.
>> That is surprising. I thought the
Articuno was going to come down.
>> Yeah, and we are going to see some recon
directives start to come through. Risky
Ruins versus Ultra Ball is intriguing.
The hand size is so low. The Ultra Ball
may not be live for a little bit. Risky
Ruins can be a nice stadium bump to the
Team Rockets factory. Kind of the only
additional draw power the Team Rockets
archetype has. And there's a boss's
orders coming into the hand. Ross, this
could be an even more devastating use of
Phantom Dive this turn. Yeah, we could
potentially get a spyops and a
surroundilla. In fact, we could get a
spidey ops and a we couldn't quite get
to. We could get close though. We get a
lot of damage on the board is what I'm
saying. This is what I want to do. I
want to punch this Mewtwo. The energy
attachments on the Team Rockets
archetype because we've lacked so many
physical energy cards. Just trying to
hunt down this Mewtwo as quickly as
possible. Put it under pressure
definitely makes a lot of sense to me
here cuz you don't want this to run away
with the game. If there's a Mewtwo in
play, it's difficult to deal with for a
Dragapult. It can use Clefarian and
start chaining knockouts or it can use
the maximum belt, the ace spec card to
jump up to 320 damage. So now that you
get the initial hit on the Mewtwo, Matt
still has to commit more energy to this
one Pokémon and then won't have a means
of bouncing back with another Mewtwo. I
think yeah, I think you're absolutely
right on that one. Now the Mewtwo's got
200 damage on, so it is very much in
danger of being KO'ed in the near
future. We just saw the top deck of the
apec that maximum belt which isn't doing
too much but items are up now but with a
the had that archino come down last turn
then that tarantula would have not been
able to have those damage
[clears throat] counters going on
>> well perhap well I'm thinking now that
because it's a team rockets archer
perhaps mater was saying lesser of two
evils let this prize go let a rocket
Pokemon get knocked out in order for you
now to hand disrupt the team rockets
archer. Well, this is fun cuz not every
deck, the most decks don't have much
hand disruption. Rocket is one of the
few that does. It only works, like you
say, if a rocket Pokemon was KO'ed last
turn. So, you can only play in a
Rocket's deck, but it's it's not far off
a an unfair stamp. Your opponent gets
one extra card. It's five for you, free
for them rather than 52, but it is some
nice disruption. So, I think you might
be right. Just essentially leave the
Tarantula there. know it's going to get
KO'ed, but then open up this as an
option. We finally have some energy,
Joe.
>> Ah, it's not the flurry we needed
alongside an ultra ball. Things would
have been really crazy if there was a
number of basic energy in addition to an
ultra ball here so that you could begin
to charge up. But there's no means of
discarding these energy. Even with debug
catching set coming down here, that's
not really going to change the fortunes.
Even with the maximum belt committed to
our active Mewtwo this turn, we're not
going to be able to reach onto this drag
EX. Already it's looking really
precarious for Mattesh who opted not to
put the Team Rockets Mimikyu into play
this turn either before using the Team
Rockets Archer.
>> Well, I think he might have been going
for Clefairy cuz that would have allowed
the KO.
>> That's true. That would have been the
only means of getting it done.
>> That's what I would have left it open
for the Clefairy, but I think I think
you're right. Mimikyu could have been a
really good attacker in this situation.
But either way, we are finally attacking
with Mewtwo 160. You can discard up to
two energy from your benched Pokemon,
dealing 60 more for each card discarded
in this way. You have no energy on your
bench Pokémon. Spidey did not do the
whole charge in energy malarkey. So, it
is just 160. Had there been a Clefairy
down, this would have been a clean KO,
but there isn't. So, it's not going
great. No. And anytime you see a
Dragapult whipstand a hit, you know it's
going to start really getting scary for
the opponent. Now, even though there's
the Team Rockets Articuno in play, we
can still take advantage of Phantom Dive
damage counters onto those spy drops,
those stage one Pokemon still can be
targeted. Yep.
>> So, over a couple of turns, Phantom
Dive, especially with Monkey Dory, if
that can at some point get into the mix
that can still finish off some spyops.
So, Alexandra already has a really nice
two prize knockout established and they
can get to work on a spyops as well.
>> Wow, we're using a poker gear. Excuse
me, a poker pad. There we go. Don't know
why that escaped me for a second. And
Alexandria here now he is I was going to
say he was eyeing up a track lo I think
it's monkey dory time. It is a bit of a
pain that you don't have the bench space
but soon as something goes down I want
monkey dory and I want to be playing
around with all of that energy. Oo
intriguing. Now that the maximum belt
has been committed, you know that a
blazerin will tank a hit into everything
from Mata's side of the board because
the only way you reach into those
Dragapult is via Lily Clefairy at this
stage. When the maximum belt is dealt
with, it gives you this opportunity to
weave in Blazakin knowing that it's
going to stick around for an additional
turn. So, Alexandra having a really good
idea here in terms of trying to make it
even more difficult as the game
progresses for one hit knockouts.
Indeed, we see a recon directive.
There's a boss's orders or a boss's
orders. I don't know which one he's
going to pick, but it looks like he's
gone for the boss's orders over the
boss's orders. And here we see the
blazerin. Don't need no meow. Do need a
blazer. And of course, blazer. Now, we
need energy in the discard, but that
could go and get the second energy
itself if we could discard an energy at
some point. I mean, we could retreat
this turn if we wanted to. We just grab
that energy.
>> Equally, opening up your board space for
Monkey Dory in the future may not be a
bad idea. No, absolutely not. Well,
there is your Ultra Ball. So, that can
get an energy in the discard if you want
it. There we go. So, that is going to
open up Blazakin to do its own charging.
And for anyone keeping score, that means
Blazerkin has accelerated an energy here
before Spidey Ops ever has.
>> Doesn't feel great. Does not feel great
>> when there's three or four of them
available [laughter] for Matteos and
it's just a stage two line. Here comes
rare candy blazer EX actually.
>> Oh, wow. Wow. So now two in play and
like we said, we want to open up the
board space for our own monkey dory. So
Alexander is going to submit some prize
cards here with Phantom Dive. Six
counters going straight onto one spots.
This is essentially the only real way
that you have to place these counters
because you're limited between two
spyops. And it only really makes sense
to set one up completely to then finish
it off with Monkey Dory. So no
shenanigans. Just six straight onto the
spider makes the most sense here. Well,
we're down to three prizes remaining.
So, if you can KO a couple of smaller
Pokémon or a Mewtwo, finish off that
Spidey Ops. But it does look like Matus
has gone, well, you know what? I might
as well just attack with this one if I
can. Here comes Team Rockets. Ariana
drawing until eight cards in hand. Has
drawn the energy needed to attach and
attack with Spidey Ops here. And then
you can start charging the bench as well
cuz you finally have an energy in the
discard. Yeah, you love to see that.
With the Mewtwo going down, you can at
least power up this new active Pokémon.
but it will be able to rocket rush for a
knockout with the amount of damage in
play on this dragon. And also finally
the ultra ball combination with these
basic grass energy. This is something
that's like hard to come together in the
deck. That's why you see some bug
catching sets in the equation just to
try and keep yourself better odds of
having this exact combo. It's been the
one thing really lacking from Mattish
this entire series really. Those basic
energies have been so elusive, but
finally we get to see some in the
discard pile. That means that we're
going to be seeing a couple of charging
up on the bench. We can attach, you
know, we got an attachment for turn as
well cuz there is still an energy there.
Of course, the active can also use their
ability. Now, here is Team Rockets
factory. You have played a Team Rocket
supporter. So, let's draw two cards.
It's an ultra ball and an energy.
They're all coming out now.
>> Oh, we actually could. Yeah, we kn
stretch it here as well. So, and we get
the Mewtwo or anything else. We were
looking for a big attack. It is Mewtwo.
It's awkward. Mewtwo has that high
retreat cost. There is one energy switch
within the deck, but you still need
you've already commit your manual
attachment to your spyops as we see the
triple charging up here.
>> Um, so this Mewtwo is just kind of going
to be a cheerleader for now. It is
opened up the option for energy switch
later though. Well, and of course you do
need, you know, that is still 30 extra
damage on the spidey ops. Did you need
it? You're hitting 150 as it is. Yeah,
you had you had enough. There was
>> Yeah, we had plenty.
>> Exactly. Yeah. But either way, that does
put the Mewtwo in there to access some
potential energy switch shenanigans.
>> What was intriguing is that maybe with
Mimikyu with this vulnerable Budd at
some point, you could have found a way
towards a multi prize turn, but that
seems to be not on the table right now
for Matteos.
The board space has opened up for
Alexandria though, but there are no
damage counters in play. So, we've been
mentioning this Monkey Dory. I think now
is really the time to start getting it
going, especially with that risky ruins,
like you say, Ross, that can really make
things happen quite quickly. If we can
make another Dragapult, we could
possibly move the spider in the active.
It's a lot to ask for here.
>> If you can move that spider on a bench,
then we can get a nice double KO rolling
here and really make life difficult for
Matus. Or we can just put a fee and dipy
down, draw a bunch of cards, and attack
with Blazakin. is also something that
you know is absolutely in the realms of
possibility. Now we are using Blazkin's
ability here. We've now got two energy
and then we're using Blazkin on the
bench. That's going to get an energy to
a doesn't have to be to itself like
spider ops.
>> A a single prize doesn't seem that
powerful but you know that Matt could
copy Dragapult later down the line to
finish off that budding in one turn. And
here it is the boss. This is what I
mentioned the high. Oh, instead. Okay.
>> No, it is going to be Mewtwo. The high
retreat cost of Mewtwo is so detrimental
when you're not able to attach for the
turn. It can be so quickly punished. And
straight away, Blazer comes in, swings
for 200 damage, and puts a real pin on
Matt
>> and he's going to be potentially going
down to one prize card remaining next
turn if this Mewtwo doesn't get out the
active. And what we playing in terms of
switching?
>> We have the Giovani, right? The the Team
Rockets Giovani is going to be the best
way to do that. But what do you want to
target? Do you take the Draco with psych
energy out? I feel like that's really
the only useful threat right now.
>> Yeah, I think that is what you want to
go for. I think it's still it gets you a
prize. It takes an energy off the board.
It's a potential It's a recon directive
down, a potential dragapult down. So,
no, I think that is the play and at
least that would count as a switch, of
course, Giovani. It's very much like
boss's orders, but you also switch your
active. So, it's just it's another trick
these Team Rocket decks have. It acts as
an extra switch.
>> Yeah. and it saves you so much space and
that's really what this archetype needs
cuz it's already quite a lot of moving
pieces. So being able to skimp out on
the actual switching spaces makes a lot
of sense here. And also the repelling
veil means that you're not worried about
corner trapping effects anyway on your
basics at least and all of your stage
ones can attack. So you don't have to
worry about any of those shenanigans.
But here comes that Team Rockets Giovani
pushing the Mewtwo to the bench. Do we
have an attachment to this Mewtwo now?
No, it's just another charging up. So he
discarded the grass energy. I still
wouldn't have minded energy onto the
Mewtwo there, but I suppose it is at
this point a very damaged Pokemon. Also,
we did an ultra ball to search out the
Mimikyu. I keep mentioning it [laughter]
as an option, but it's not coming up
just yet.
>> It's not coming up. Well, right now it's
not a valid attacker because there is no
drag pole out. You're right. We could be
picking up for the future. We're not
yet. What we are doing is getting a KO
on that Dracloak with the spide offs.
Down to three prize cards remaining for
Matus. We are tied here. Both players
free prizes taken. Free prizes
remaining. But it does feel like
Alexandria is in a very nice position
with this Blazakin. And honestly, from
here on, there's an argument to just not
go dragult. My blazer can hit 200. You
can copy my Dragapult with Mimikyu.
Let's just do this. And here, finally,
Joe, it's your boy.
>> Monkey Dory's finally made it onto the
scene alongside the risky ruins. A great
combination as this can be a means of
damaging your own Pokémon. We are going
to see the retreat of Blazakin into
Dracloak. So we might well we are going
for the dragon pot attack here Ross. We
can use double sething spirit here to
get the dragonot into the equation. It's
with boss's orders. And that's why cuz
we can use monkey dory and take a three
prize swing with phantom dive.
>> And that is going to be all we need to
finish off game one. Mewtwo goes down,
spid goes down. We have six prizes for
Alexandria. We have game one for
Alexandrew. And phase two starting off
very nicely. And stop me if you've heard
this one before, but it's A WIN FOR
DRAGON. YOU'RE going to hear that a lot.
[laughter]
If our phase one has been anything to go
by, I feel like phase two could be more
of the same. Excellent scenes there from
Alexandria. Really, really nicely
played. Knowing when to go in with a
phantom dive was really crucial. And I
think had that little bit of slice of
luck in the early stages where there was
just a lack of grass energy for Mattesh.
It really allowed Alexandru to have a
great board position here. Getting that
pre- punch on Mewtwo, I feel like is
such a big deal for the Dragapult. It's
such a nuisance to sit around on the
board. Uh 280 hit point basic is pretty
unfair, especially [laughter] when your
own phantom dive like can't place
counters on it preemptively. So getting
that early boss orders was such a big
deal. And here we did see the big KO
with Dragapole onto that Team Rockets
Mewtwo. Then we saw exactly the same
thing again. Boss's orders. It was onto
the Mewtwo, not on the Articuno. And
that meant that again we could
preemptively hit that trap it in the
active you know unless there's some kind
of switch and the switch did come.
Giovani got spots in the active but then
Alexandria goes nope let's bring it
straight back again. Monkey Dory damage
onto Team Rocket Spide bringing it into
range of that phantom dive. And Mew Mu
looks pretty chuffed right now. Joe
>> has a face of a happy Mew as you can
see. There it is. But I think you've
already seen the highs and lows of the
Team Rockets archetype. I think we got
to see that early flood of basic Pokémon
from the turn one proton going first,
which is just so incredible. But then
you see that every now and then you have
these random droughts. You have to a
crazy energy drought of all things that
really made life more awkward. And you
have to go through this archetype in a
weird way and that you almost have to
play it like a theme deck at times
assuming that you're not going to get
much already. Rewarding signs though for
Mesh in game number two as there's two
of the team rockets energy in those
prize cards. Such a crucial element of
the archetype.
>> Wow. If you need Mewtwo, you're going to
need that. We're rolling here in game
two. Matus does not have anywhere near
as good of turn one. We got a Team
Rockets Duler on the bench. Mimikyu in
the active and we just pass to
Alexandrew. And I hate to break it to
you, but that Mimikyu is not going to be
doing much for a turn or two.
>> No, it's not ideal. But already that
indicates that there's no transceiver in
the hand and obviously no physical
copies of the Team Rockets proton. So
that's going to be another objective for
the Team Rockets archetype to flood its
board with Rocket's Pokémon. Spidey Ops
requires it for its damage output.
Mewtwo can't attack unless there's at
least 14 Rockets Pokemon in play. So
that's just another objective that Matt
has to concern himself with whereas
we've seen Alexander get himself out of
a bad rut by being able to grab that
Meowth EX
hand into Lily.
>> Yes, another thing we're going to see
over and over again in this format. Turn
one. Oh, my hand's bad. Meow for Lily's
determination. Get yourself a new hand.
Shuffle draw. Put your hand back in.
Draw a new hand of eight cards and that
is going to give you everything.
HOPEFULLY DOUBLE BUDDY BUDDY POPPING
JOE.
>> YEAH, you said everything. [laughter]
Apparently, I wasn't like,
>> you were right. Oh my goodness. And that
means that you can establish itchy
pollen once again here. We've already
attached Psych Energy to our Torchic.
So, we can pivot into the Budu once
again and really just stifle the options
for Matteos, who although is reliant on
a supporter to find a lot of their
Pokémon, still plays those Ultra Ball to
discard energy cards, still plays those
bug catching set for additional reach.
And now, if ever we start to see draws
into the Team Rockets Transceiver, those
are no longer alive either. I mean, I'm
looking at the list. Four Ultra ball,
four transceiver, three bug catching
set. Those are the third to sorry, 11
cards that you are going to want next
turn to try and draw out of this. And
they are all going to be gone. That is
far from ideal for Alexandrew. Once
again, you've got nearly your perfect
board. You'd rather not have Meow. You'd
rather it was a second torch chick. That
is the worst thing we can say. And it's
itchy pollen. No items for you, Matus.
So many of those item cards no longer
usable. So it is just going to be Lily's
determination getting a fresh eight card
hand on his own end here as he has not
yet taken any prize cards. But it's not
it's not as good.
>> Oh no. [laughter]
>> When you can play items at the end of
it, the number of outs you're looking
for is so much smaller. And now it's
like, oh, I've hit pro. Oh no.
>> Yeah, your time is up. It's a little bit
awkward, no doubt. And now we're just
looking for physical copies of Pokémon.
We need to find those energy
searching options.
If you draw an item, you can't play it.
If you draw a supporter, you can't
draw exactly what you want or it's not
going to work. Can we get free to
rounder in an energy?
>> Well, we have a spide ops and we have an
energy. We could take the knockout with
take down if we want to, but that leaves
us so vulnerable.
Stashing an energy for rocket rush next
turn is still reasonable. Oh, but we
might be getting aggressive here. Ross,
I like it cuz the game's not going your
way and you need your item cards back to
rounder is going to do it. I'm a huge
fan in the in the current Pokemon TG. I
love having a random basic that can hit
30 damage. So if your opponent is trying
to block you with PO, you say no. Yeah,
you see it with Tarantula, you see it
with Riolu, a couple of our like really
important basics in the metag game right
now, they all share that common
denominator. And I think that is
definitely a big feature of why some of
these archetypes are so solid because
they can have such a lowmaintenance
means of dealing with Budd at least
punish the opponent for trying to slow
you down. Wow. We see a recon directive
here coming from the Dloak. We're
looking at the top two cards. It's a
buddy buddy puffin and a boss's orders.
Could use the buddy puffin to go and get
some like a second torchic if you like.
But we saw how big boss's orders could
be. though for the time being it's going
to be an ultra ball getting rid of a
bedoo.
>> Might just be some foder here honestly.
>> Yeah, I
>> think there's already the combustion in
hand.
>> It is fod.
>> This does have a 20 damage attack and it
is a fire type so it can KO this
tarantula for just a 20 damage attack
with weakness thanks to the 10 damage
tarantula's done to itself.
>> Yep. Combustion's combustion say that 10
times fast will do 40 damage for the
weakness. And because of the 10 damage
from Boo, which comes up more often than
you'd think, that will be a KO on the
Toronto leaving just one Mimikyu and
nothing else. I want to see Combustion's
Combustion coming out.
>> No Fasendipity. That would have been a
way to fill up your board, but gain some
additional cards. Will Alexander go for
the aggressive line? You do have a prize
on the board if you want it thanks to
our weakness. Instead, you may just want
to load up energy on Draclo. Maybe
possibly give up on this Torchic saying
that you can still find your way towards
Phantom Dive later.
>> Nah,
>> here we go.
>> Let's do this. Come on. Show me
combustion. We're doing a first
>> or Itchy Pollen. That's also live. You
can retreat now, then evolve up into
Combustion.
>> Give yourself opportunity for multiple
stage twos next turn.
>> I mean, this is probably the better
play. It just [laughter]
>> I don't know. I just like I've never
seen Combustion use Combustion on stream
and I would like to see it. Yeah, if we
had saved a buddy buddy popping to get
the additional torchic, I would have
liked it. But sacrificing your combuskin
and then having no energy in play would
have been a little awkward.
>> Here we are then. We finally have access
to a Team Rockets Proton. So, we can go
wide and crucially establish that Team
Rockets Articuno. So, there's a big side
of relief now with so many vulnerable
low hit point basics on the board. They
are now safeguarded against the Phantom
Dive damage counter placement. And at
least you've got it before Phantom Dive.
Phantom dive never came out until the
Articuno was there. Your spide ops will
be vulnerable, but that's it. And it's
another KO on Boo using that tarantula.
There's now up to three damage counters.
Two fifth zone attack, one from Bedu's
Itchy Poll, but it's still chilling out
there for a minute. Oo, and Alexandra
already has access to risky ruins. If we
can get some Monkey Dory in the
equation, even that could take a knock
out this turn. failing that. It could be
a pretty routine KO with a Blazakin.
Perhaps we have a third recon directive.
What a powerful board that's been
established. There's the Blazakin EX.
>> Nice.
>> Finally making its way into the hand,
but I don't think we can launch an
attack here, Ross. That's all that
meaningful.
>> I don't think's orders and then just
some dead cards in the hand.
>> You would need a fire energy in hand.
Oh, well, you need an energy in hand.
You can accelerate one with the ability.
Oh, that's why you're looking at that
rescue stretcher. would have got the
energy, but then you wouldn't have had
the Blazakin.
>> So now you're hoping to be a sponge in
the active as Blazakin perhaps
>> I think. So really wanted both of both
of those cards together would have done
it.
>> That would have been great. Yeah,
>> it's not how recon directive works.
>> Now Alexandria debating a stalling
boss's orders.
Also debating using this ability. I feel
like you have to use basic king.
>> I agree.
>> Yeah, we're going to power it up for one
attachment and then pass the action
over. This is a big window of
opportunity for Mat now.
>> He's he's got Spidey Ops, I think, in
hand. So, he could put an attack in for
at least kind of 150 as it stands. Maybe
build it up from there. Here comes bug
catching set. Would love to see another
spide ops here
>> to evolve up. Oh, it's just a one energy
and nothing else. Not a great hit off
that. Yeah, unlike a lot of our really
focused Teal Mask Ogapon builds, there's
not great odds of actually hitting from
your bug catching set. A lot of the time
it's just to give yourself earlier
access turn one so you don't whiff early
attachments or every now and then it
combines a vulture. But with only seven
grass energy in the deck and then just
your handful of spiders, you don't have
that many opportunities to hit. So it's
actually fairly often that you only see
one target from this card.
>> Yeah, I've got significantly more
tarantulas in my house than Matus has
got in his deck. He's got a mate. I'm
like five times that.
>> Ooh, here we go. It's going to be the
retreat to free up the grass energy. So
now we can bring up with Team Rockets
Giovani the Meow EX charge up on Spide
manually attach our grass energy to
Mewtwo and really pounce with a nice two
prize knockout here. Yeah, we had the
rockets energy so now we can go and hit
Me and yeah, nice and easy KO there. And
that's two prizes. And this is a way
that Matus was not able to do this in
the previous game. We've KOed the two
bedu. We've now KO Meow as well. Medatus
hasn't really KO'ed anything remotely
difficult [laughter] and has two prize
cards remaining.
>> Yeah, that is a terrifying position,
especially because this Mewtwo, it's not
going anywhere. It cannot be knocked out
this turn. Nope. So, if Mattesh can find
a way towards his A-spec, that maximum
belt, it could be all over. And as we
know, there's Team Rocket's petrol in
the suite of Team Rocket supporters. So,
Alexandre really has to try and find a
means of disruption right now. Well,
it's going to be a boss's orders. Looks
like that seems to be the disruption
we've got at least for the time being.
But then changed his mind on that. We
haven't seen it come down yet.
>> Yeah, I don't see any hand disruption.
>> Nope.
>> That's already going to be a big issue.
There's a manual. Is that the manual
attachment
for Blazakin? There's the manual psychic
energy to Torchic.
>> And then are we just going to
>> swing into the Mewtwo? Yeah. Hope that
one turn your opponent doesn't have
access to a Team Rockets transceiver.
But there it is. Team Rockets
transceiver will grab our Team Rockets
petrol and that's going to go and get
the Aspec that gets any trainer and that
means we got 160 plus 120 plus 50 is 330
and that is going to be enough to get
the KO on that blazer.
>> As long as we have enough. Do we have
enough grass energy in the discar pile
here?
>> We need a we can manually attach.
>> MANUALLY ATTACH NOW. WE'VE got it. And
now we see the fist bump. We did need
those two basic energy on the bench, but
we got there. But Tuesday's game two,
Joe. We're going to a game three.
>> That was a completely different picture.
Even though there was the pressure from
Buddy that was so effective in that game
number one, Mattesh this time just said,
"Well, I'm not doing much in the hand.
Why don't I just start taking some prize
cards?" I'm putting that pressure on.
And that really did make a big
difference here. Tarantula being so
effective at just taking those early
prize cards completely changes the
complexion of the game.
>> Well, let's remind ourselves then about
what we just saw over there in game two.
We saw this great setup from Alexandri
while Matus is struggling. But what he
could do was just KO both of take those
two early prizes, try and get rolling.
But then we saw that Team Rockets
Giovani onto the Meow. Mewtw goes into
the active. It's a Gen One showdown. And
I'm afraid Mewtwo was always going to
win this one. And that was a big KO for
two prizes. Putting Mat's down to just
two prize cards remaining without ever
having really done very much. And then
Blazer King came up, put some damage.
But all we needed was the Aspec and you
can either use Team Rocky's Patrol or
you can use Transceiver for Patrol and
that meant that there were just too many
out. We hit it and then we're going to a
game three. It feels like Matusa's got
options for big KOs in Lily's Clefairy
onto Dragapult or the Aspec onto Blazer
Kim, but it's ONCE PER GAME. OH, JOE,
FOUR OR SEVEN ENERGY PRIZE.
>> OH, that is that is really rough. We saw
that in game number one. Energy was the
big issue. Alexandre starts off with the
Lily's Cafairy EX has an energy and is
ultra pulling away at least a few
supporter cards. So, it's not a great
opener, but we know he's at the very
least holding on to some supporters for
next turn. Interestingly enough, opted
to go first here simply because of the
threat of the Team Rockets Proton.
Absolutely. There's no threat of a rare
candy though because both of them are in
the prize card. So both players a little
bit hard done by by those prize cards.
Oh, but four out of your seven basic
energy. That is that is unlikely. Game
three is rolling here. And here we see a
little look at the prize cards. And it's
it's not looking great here. No, we
really need to scout out this opening
hand because if there's no early access
to grass, it's only going to cascade
into more and more difficulties here.
Well, there's at least one grass energy
in this hand, which can get us started.
Leading out this Team Rockets Mewtwo,
not ideal. You would much prefer the
Mewtwo or the Tarantula, the Artino, I
should say. But now that's going to
force you to weave in a Team Rockets
Giovani earlier on in the game than you
would often like to.
>> It's not a great start all around with
the energy being prized, having a bad
starting Pokémon. It's It's just looking
not ideal. Well, there's a Team Rockets
factory. Go and draw a couple there. Of
course, you've already used Proton to go
and search your basics. There's a Mewtwo
coming down. There is a Roundula. There
is a Roundula.
>> This is great. This is a fantastic
opener.
>> Your energy
>> got an Ultra Ball as well for another
Pokémon if you want it.
>> Yeah, discarding energy is so strong
here. You want to give yourself access,
especially with that transceiver in
hand. It gives you access to a Mewtwo
Gust K.O. next turn could be huge. Opens
up the door for the spidops to be an
attacker as well next turn.
This really is doing a whole lot here.
This is one of the key objectives of the
Team Rockets archetype. Dispatching
these basic energy is so huge.
>> I'll tell you what, prizes not good.
Starting Pokémon, not good. But first
turn, in spite of all of that, you got
an energy in the discard. You got your
double energy on Mewtwo. You've got a
couple of basics down. It's not a bad
start. We're over to Alexandria here,
who is just going straight for Lily's
determination. Did not like that hand.
And we got an energy on the Liz Kfairy
in the active. And actually that Lydia
Clefairy, it's useful for Matus. It's
it's not very useful for Alexandrew. But
it is a Pokémon that will be very easily
KO for two prizes just like Meow was
last game. But we did see Alexandrew not
put down Budd. So didn't want to retreat
into a slower Itchy Pollen play. So
maybe trying to eye up an attack with
the Clefairy proactively and just sort
of get what value you can from the full
moon Rondo.
>> I mean, I don't mind that. If you got to
play with it, you might as well get as
much use out of it as you possibly can.
>> But we got 15 minutes on the clock. Keep
an eye on that cuz time could be an
issue as we go. For now, we got 15
minutes. We're into game three. What are
you What are your hands? [laughter] A
stinker, Ross. It's It's really really
poor.
>> Hey, don't don't miss your words, Joe.
Tell us what you think.
>> Couple bosses orders. See a stadium bump
now. Then the torch comes down. Going to
receive some damage counters. There's a
Fezendipity EX. I think it's the only
saving grace from this entire hand and
possibly that's the reason why Budd is
now coming into this active position.
>> I think you're right. You know, having
that proactive cafairy could be fun. But
if you've got nothing else, slowing the
game down with that's what Boo was made
for or grown for. I'll figure that one
out later. [laughter]
Spops comes down. We see another energy
on Mewtwo. That one is ready to go. And
then a Lily's determination for a fresh
hand of eight cards. So, Alexander at
least knows now that he won't be knocked
out this turn, especially with the item
knock. The only way you could do it
would be a charging up energy switch
combination now that our supporter has
been played. So, we know that there's
going to be no pressure this turn. But
that Mewtwo is looking oh so
intimidating. You've had the opportunity
to weave in a couple of energy
attachments. There's already one grass
energy in the discard pile as well if
you look to retrie on the next turn. If
we can find something from this Lily,
the Mewtwo variant is going to really
have a good time here as it's been a
slower approach from Alexandria this
game. Lacking those Dracloak on turn
two.
>> Absolutely. It looks like we might have
a Giovani ready for next turn, but
nothing here. We see another
>> the risky ruins coming in before using a
Team Rockets factory. So that tarantulum
now might be set up in the long term.
Spox can be now phantom dive over two
turns as it is. is just the evolution to
combuskin and the itchy pollen again.
There's still nothing working for
Alexandra in this game three.
>> Well, there's the stadium and here's
what's really fun about the stadium. You
can Giovani here. Go bring that combus
up, but then you play a Team Rocket
supporter, so you can draw two with a
factory. So, you're not giving up draw.
You're getting a little bit in addition
to your supporter. This combus is going
to easily go down from the attack from
Mewtwo. We see a team rockus energy onto
Spidey setting that up to attack in the
future. And that's a couple of, you
know, that's a first prize taken by
Matus there. This is not too shabby. The
very least, there's flip the script to
try and change the situation. And there
it is. Lily's determination comes into
the hand. So, we can finally rid
ourselves of this really awkward start
for Alexandre, but he's going to be
submitting a lot of prize cards. There
might be a little moment here of pause
as there was a I believe a card may have
been flashed from the draw there. We'll
get confirmation of that because it
looks like players currently stopped.
But okay, it is going to be
confirmation. We're carrying on Lily's
determination. A fresh eight cards for
Alexandra here who really has to start
working towards some of these Dracloak.
And now that Combuskin's been taken out,
you have to find a Torchic as well. And
it's worth noting that if you're having
this slow start, one of the things you
might do is try and use one of your two
rare candy to get an attacker going up a
little bit faster than you otherwise
would. But they are both prized. No rare
candy are available. So you do have to
evolve up manually. There is no other
gear available. So that is going to work
in Matis's favor. And after a horrible
game one is really seeming to be taking
control of this matchup. One game two
and putting themselves in a decent
position. We got a buddy puffin being
played. That final bed space is
remaining open.
>> Yeah, I think there's Torchic in the
hand. So this is going to be thrown away
for now. Having a quick scout through
that deck.
>> Torchic is going to come down. Uh we
don't have to damage it because it's a
different stadium. There we go. We can
manually attach somewhere before using
an itchy pollen here. But we are once
again in that this position, Ross, where
beginning to submit a lot of prize cards
can be quite precarious.
>> And you know your opponent's playing a
bunch of Team Rockets Giovani. though
they can potentially hunt the energy.
And with Team Rocket's transceiver in
hand just in the deck generally, you
know, it's a deck that's going to have
bosses orders more easily or that
effect, that gusting effect more easy
than your average deck. Energy onto
Spidey Ops. Well, energy on Tarantula,
then energy onto Spidey Ops.
>> Do we even want to use the knockout?
>> Continue to go ahead bank those energy
for MUT to take away later.
And once again, there are no stage one
Pokemon in play. The rare candies are in
the prize cards. It's going to be
another turn of no pressure from
Alexandre.
Fit the script can help out, but there's
still going to be no pressure this turn.
And you're going to be submitting
another prize card. And that's going to
be a minimum of three. Medus is going to
have a minimum free prize cards taken.
But the thing is we there's Team Rocky's
Transceiver is available. So that's
going to go and get yourself a Giovani
if you don't get it normally. And
there's both Fez and Dippy and Cthi. So
Medat could play this entire game
without ever having to worry about a
Blazkin or a Dragapult.
>> Yeah, that's not an ideal situation. You
want these stage twos to be up there
taking hits, getting its value as best
it can, but the Mewtwo strategy can have
that high damage output when it needs
to, especially into Dragapult. That's
just how the Rockets deck has been
built. A poke pad does get a second Dra
look at the very least for Alexandre.
It's taken a while to get to this spot.
We're finally getting towards our main
engine and our main attacking lineup.
>> Goes and gets a DPY off that recon
directive. Does have a buddy poffin
which could also have gotten the drey if
you're interested. That's iron up. Was
is that the only option there?
>> There is one more drey in the deck as
well.
>> Right at the right at the top of the
deck there. Okay.
>> Yeah, it's it's like you said maybe at
this point you want to use it pollen
just so there's no access to the
transceiver for a turn. Really, that's
all you can think of. And ultimately,
you have to protect this Torchic. I
think on the previous turn, had we
attached an energy to Lily's Clefairy,
we could have at least punched into the
Mewtwo. Yeah.
>> And tried to work towards a blazakin
this way, but it's all kind of a moot
point without access to Combuskin.
>> No, really lacking his energy. There are
some panic crispening in the deck just
in case you don't get your stage two
online. Y
>> and I think we're going to try and judge
to make that happen. A strong
combination here. Alexandre is going to
be submitting prize cards. That's
definitely a concern, but you're
limiting your opponent's hand in this
spot and is likely to launch an itchy
pollen to make it difficult for them to
do much beyond just dealing with the
buddoo.
>> Wow. Hope for an Ariana if you're Matus
because actually with an Ariana this can
be, you know, going down to a low hand
size is great if you hit the Ariana off
it. And you do have your factory as
well. Oh, we didn't even hit a
supporter. I didn't even supporter. All
we hit was a transceiver. So, if we do
have an itchy Bolan here, Medusa's I
mean, you can still attack with Mewtwo,
but you're not going to be developing
your board at all. That is not the hand
you want against a Boo. At least we find
an energy. So, we can stash that onto
Draclo is simply going to be a retreat
into Badu here. Prod this Mewtwo once
again.
Action over to Matu can quite easily
continue this prize race, but what else
can he construct?
>> Well, right now, I mean, he doesn't need
to construct anything right now, but
you're right. It is always nice when you
can continue just building up your
board. For now, we got Mewtwo in the
active. There's a second spyops down.
And yeah, that's just literally it.
Evolve into spyops. Announce the attack.
Get down to three prize cards remaining.
It is worth noting we got 7 minutes
left. We should have enough time to
finish this off, but keep an eye on this
one. Dlo uses recon directive. It's a
boss or an A-spec. You normally take the
A-spec when it's available.
>> Oh, for sure. You need this Drag Bolt to
tank a hit here. And there's currently
no Aspec in play. There's no Lily
Clefairy EX in play. So, you're really
going to have to cross your fingers that
this that this one Dragapult can do a
lot of work. And the main way you can do
that is by disrupting your opponent
instantly. Wow. If you see a Lily
Clefairy, things are going to get hairy.
But right now, it's two cards for Matus,
one for turn. If you can play a
supporter, you can use factory for two
more next turn, assuming that isn't
bumped for something else in the
meantime. So, you do have a few outs
here. Let's see what cards we're going
to get from Matus. two cards off of this
unfair stamp. Tell me you're going to
show us, man.
>> Well, first of all, we need to see
Alexandria get access to a psych energy.
We do have night stretcher for
Combuskin.
>> Uh, I've got good news for for Medatus's
hand. You know how I said Ariana was
good?
>> He hit Ariana
>> and Hariana.
>> Ah, it just hit two of those.
>> Yeah,
>> it's always got his hand.
>> That's pretty good. It's not guaranteed
to hit what you want, but yeah, it is
definitely a strong start. The crisp in
for the supporter for the turn does grab
our psychic energy now. So that is at
least resolved and we can stash an
energy onto a bench track cloak. We
basically drawing until you got 10 cards
in hand. I think that's going to that's
going to help.
>> Oh yeah,
>> you're right. It's not guaranteed, but I
feel like it's going to help. Here is a
poker pad searching out a non rulebox
Pokémon. No, it's not. It's just having
a quick look. There is nothing there.
Oh, it's a monkey dory. It was so quick
I nearly missed it. But it was a monkey
dory we got grabbed there. and one more
recon directive, but the trap has been
set. You're really crossing your fingers
that this Dragapult can stick around for
a turn. If that's the case, you can then
pivot into your next Dragapult. Ideally,
start using Monkey Dory to heal off your
own Pokémon and start to disrupt this
board that little bit more. So,
Alexandra definitely, it's taken a while
to get to this position, but there's
real potential that there's a survival
here for the Dragapult EX. If it can
hang on, this could be a massive turn.
But as you said, Ross, there's already
the Team Rockets Ariana in the hand.
>> That's going to draw six. And it's also
going to activate the stadium to let you
draw another two. So we do Well, I mean,
a Clefairy here would be absolutely
amazing.
>> Clefairy or Ultra Ball. There's still
the Team Rockets factory to go as you
mentioned. Two more cards.
>> Haven't hit it yet. Uh oh, that's a bug
catching set. Clefairy is not much of a
grasp. I think he might have whiffed it.
You know, Joe Alexander dodging bullets
out here.
It's exactly what he needed to have a
way back into this game. Now, the good
news for Matt is that punching this
Dragapult can still be very relevant.
You can use that gemstone mimicry later
on to like finish it off if there's a
second Dragapult established. So, you're
really locking Alexandra out of options
still just by punching this Dragapult
for 280 damage. It's complete whiff bug
catching set. No cards whatsoever. A no
grass Pokémon, no grass energy, no
grass, nothing available. We see an
energy going on to spide offs with the
ability. I think it's for the ability.
Yep. Either way, there's an energy on
there, which on the one you've got lots
of energy on the bench to to to fuel
your Mewtwo, but there's no backup
Mewtwo here, which is a little bit of a
pain. Is that a pass? Surely not.
>> I think it might have been a pass. Well,
>> there's no damage counters, so
>> So, we didn't attack.
>> I'm very surprised by the outcome
myself. I mean surely just like I I mean
retreat and attack with spidups if
nothing else.
>> Well, here we are. We're seeing a
crisping come down. Going to grab a
darkness energy out of the deck. We've
already evolved into Blazer King EX cuz
if we've got a Monkey Dory, this is a
free price turn with a spide and a
Mewtwo both going down.
>> Well, I mean, yeah, this changes
everything. You return ahead. You've
given away that opportunity. Maybe in
fear of Adrenobrain, but really you
can't be that fearful.
Three prize cards to go. It is the
phantom dive coming in. Mw's going to go
down for a little bit less value than
expected.
Six damage counters on the bench. Spidey
ops there and spots will be set up. Both
spy drops now will be set up for phantom
dive in the future.
>> Yeah, numbers working perfectly. Well,
the good news is you got a mimicu in the
active. Do we have a team rockets energy
to use? Not yet. We don't know.
>> We could go and do a bit of shuffle
drawing here. Bit of disruption with
archer.
>> I think exactly. That's what it's time
for is the hand isn't ideal. We're now
going to scout the Lily's Clefairy.
>> Oh, and there's a really fun thing here,
of course. So, with Mimikyu, you copy
the attack. Clefairy let you hit for
weakness and you actually hit 400 to
Dragapult and still get to hit six to
the bench.
>> Yeah, that's part of the reason why the
Mimikyu is so powerful.
>> Pretty good.
>> Can we get there though? It's only five
cards from the Team Rockets Archer and
then an additional two from the Team
Rockets factory. So, let's roll the dice
again. Can we access that Lily Cafairy
EX? All failing that. Some Ultra Ball
will get the job done as well here. But
now we also need to find a Team Rockets
energy. These are difficult cards to
find. Seeing as we've already gone down
three of the Team Rockets energy, Ross.
>> Yeah, there's one left. Can we find it?
It's not in the prizes. So, there's good
news. Do we have it? This is a huge Oh,
no.
>> We have Ultra Ball.
>> We don't have the Team Rockets energy
yet.
>> No, the Ultra Ball's nice.
Uh, still didn't hit it. Transceiver and
a grass energy. Is there an energy
switch by any chance?
>> No, there's no basic psych energy in the
deck whatsoever. Just the grass energy.
So, we cannot copy.
>> So, it has to be a Mewtwo. So, now we
retreat into Spidey Ops.
>> Now, we're going to lose two Spidey Ops
next turn.
>> And that's going to put Alexandria down
to just two prize cards remaining. We
get 15 damage counters down. We see
Monkey Dory and we see an energy. So,
three of those are going to go straight
back to the other side of the board.
And yeah, I mean Alexander trying to set
himself up for a knockout here.
>> And you could even move free to Team
Rockets Mimikyu and then you can Monkey
Dory to finish it off next turn.
>> Not with the Articuno right now, but
yeah,
>> you just take out double spider ops this
turn.
That's all you do. You go down to two
prize cards remaining.
>> I'm talking about double Adrenrain onto
the Mimikyu.
>> Oh, right. Yeah. Over two turns. That
would be great.
>> Yeah. So, we could do that this turn and
next turn and that would be six damage
counters. So that that's an option, but
it just feels again just like you've
probably already got it. I still want to
do it, just to be clear. I still want to
put this onto the Mimikyu. Come on,
vindicate me, Alexandrew.
>> There you go.
>> There we go. The only place that makes
sense. [laughter]
>> It does certainly make sense. And it's
going to be a double prize knockout
thanks to the boss's orders. She was in
such a strong position. Had a intriguing
pass and it's really changed the tide of
this game.
>> Absolutely. And then their ne next turn
boss's orders or if you really honestly
you can just monkey dory and then
attack.